Supporting Pakistan’s Energy Transition for Sustainable Future.
Director
Advisor
Steering Committee
Faculty
Together we achieve more
Our Funding Partners
The LUMS Energy Institute (LEI) is a leading think tank, committed to advancing Pakistan's shift towards cleaner energy solutions. Through data-driven analysis and strategic policymaking, LEI aims to create a substantial impact by advancing renewable energy alternatives. Team at LEI conducts cutting-edge research and crafts policies to aid this energy transition. LEI also serves as a platform for knowledge exchange. It is also currently working on various sustainable entrepreneurship ventures, focused on strengthening partnerships with key industry players, collaborating with the Government of Pakistan and clean energy leaders worldwide.
By working with interdisciplinary experts in electrical engineering, social sciences, public policy, environmental science, economics, and business, LEI strengthens its sustainability initiatives in Pakistan. Dedicated to promoting low-carbon solutions, LEI aims to accelerate clean energy practices and address current and future environmental challenges.
Director LEI
Dr. Naveed Arshad is an Associate Professor and Director of the National Center in Big Data and Cloud Computing (NCBC) at Lahore University of Management Sciences. He founded the Energy Informatics Group (EIG) and serves as Director of the LUMS Energy Institute. His research focuses on energy and climate informatics, energy demand forecasting, and renewable integration. Dr. Arshad has published nearly sixty research articles and created PRECON, an open residential energy data platform. He co-founded several start-ups in energy analytics and has consulted for USAID, the World Bank, and Hyundai Research. In 2024, he received Pakistan's Pride of Performance Award.
Dr. Fiaz Ahmad Chaudhry is an Electrical Engineer with over 40 years of experience in the electric utility industry, consulting engineering, and academia. He is currently serving as the senior advisor of LEI. He specializes in energy policy, power system planning, smart grid solutions, and utility management. Before joining LUMS as Professor of Practice, he served as MD of NTDC and held senior management positions in various electric utilities and consulting firms. He served as the founding Director of LUMS Energy Institute and holds the Siemens Verner-Von Chair. His work has been instrumental in transforming LEI to focus on energy research and innovation.
Khalid Aziz is the Otto N. Miller Professor Emeritus of Earth Sciences and Emeritus Professor of Energy Resources Engineering at Stanford University. His research interests include petroleum reservoir simulation, optimization of oil field development and operations, and modeling of gas production from shale resources. Prof. Khalid has held several positions in industry and academia, including Chair of the Petroleum Engineering Department and Associate Dean for Research in the School of Earth Sciences at Stanford University. He founded the Computer Modelling Group (CMG) and is a co-founder of Neotechnology Consultants.
Khurram Afridi is an Associate Professor and Director of graduate studies in Electrical and Computer Engineering at Cornell University. His research interests are high-frequency power electronics and energy systems incorporating power electronic controls to efficiently harness, store, transmit, distribute, and use energy. His vision is to develop electronic energy conversion technologies that are ultra-efficient, extremely compact, and less expensive. He is an associate editor of the IEEE Journal of Emerging and Selected Topics in Power Electronics and was the Technical Program Committee chair for the IEEE Wireless Power Transfer Conference and co-chair for the IEEE Workshop on Emerging Technologies.
Professor Michael Pecht is an expert in strategic planning, design, testing, and risk assessment of information systems. He holds degrees in Physics, Electrical Engineering, and Engineering Mechanics from the University of Wisconsin-Madison. Pecht is a Professional Engineer, Fellow of IEEE, ASME, SAE, and IMAPS, and editor-in-chief of IEEE Access. He founded and directs CALCE at the University of Maryland, a center generating over $6M annually from 150+ electronics companies. He has authored 20+ books, 700 technical articles, holds 7 patents, and consults for international companies. His awards include the IEEE Reliability Society's Lifetime Achievement Award.
Sally M. Benson is the Precourt Family Professor in the Department of Energy Resources Engineering in the School of Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences. Prof. Benson's studies focus on reducing greenhouse gas emissions including geologic storage of CO2 in deep underground formations. She has served as Energy Division Director and Chief Strategist for the Energy Transition at the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy. Prior to this, she served as the Co-Director of the Stanford Center for Carbon Storage and the Stanford Carbon Removal Initiative. She was the coordinating lead author on the 2005 IPCC Special Report on Carbon Dioxide Capture and Storage.
Dr. Tariq M. Jadoon, currently the Provost at LUMS, earned his PhD in Electrical and Electronics Engineering from the University of Strathclyde, Glasgow, in 1998, following an MSc in 1993. Before joining LUMS in 2001, he co-founded the Center for Computer Information Systems Engineering at NWFP UET, Peshawar. At LUMS, he has held several leadership positions, including Registrar, Associate Dean, and Vice Provost. He also worked with IBM Global Business Solutions during a sabbatical. As Director of the USAID-funded e-Mobility R&D Lab, he focuses on EV motor and battery testing to enhance Pakistan’s EV capacity and ensure that the university plays a critical role of providing premium EV battery and motor testing services to the electric vehicle industry of Pakistan.
Nauman Ahmad Zaffar earned his BS (1990) and MS (1991) in Electrical Engineering from the University of Pennsylvania, where he developed a high-resolution frequency swept microwave diversity imaging system. He served as Assistant Professor at UET from 1994 to 2000, then joined Techlogix Pakistan as Vice President, specializing in software solutions across multiple industries and regions, including Pakistan, UAE, China, and the USA. Since 2010, he has been a faculty member at LUMS, focusing on energy optimization, power electronics, and renewable energy. His research includes dc/dc converters, grid-tied solar inverters, and smart load management solutions in Pakistan’s power sector.
Dr. Khan is an Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering, a Senior Member of IEEE, and a founding member of the LUMS Energy Institute. He is also the Director of the Energy and Power Systems Lab at LUMS. He earned his BSc in Electronic Engineering from GIKI, Pakistan, and his MS and PhD in Electrical Engineering from the University of Manchester in 2006 and 2010, respectively. His current research focuses on developing innovative grid architectures for sustainable rural electrification using solar energy. He also studies the adoption of solar PV in both rural and urban environments, with an emphasis on policy factors. Dr. Khan is an expert in optimizing performance ratios for grid-tied solar PV systems and has extensive experience in reliability and financial modelling. Additionally, he investigates the impact of storage systems and electric vehicles on traditional grid structures, aiming to support evidence-based policy making for these emerging technologies.
Dr. Shakeel Sadiq Jajja is Associate Professor of Operations and Supply Chain Management and Associate Dean (Graduate Programs) at LUMS. He has led the Executive MBA and MS in Supply Chain and Retail Management. Dr. Jajja completed a Fulbright Postdoctoral Fellowship at Stanford University in 2023 and has participated in Harvard Business School’s Global Colloquium on Learning. He holds a Ph.D. from LUMS, an MS in Total Quality Management from the University of the Punjab, and a BSc in Mechanical Engineering from UET Lahore. His research focuses on sustainability, innovation, and supply chains, published in top-tier journals worldwide.
Project Manager / Post Doc Scientist
Energy Informatics Lead
Generation and Transmission Lead
Energy and Environmental Lead
Energy and Ev lead
Energy and Climate Change Lead
Indigenization Lead
Ev and Battery Lead
Data Science Lead
Energy Planning Specialist
Energy Specialist
E-Mobility Specialist
Embedded Systems Specialist
Data Science Specialist
Our sustainability initiatives are made possible thanks to our dedicated donors, committed to reducing climate change impacts and advancing green solutions in sectors like oil and gas and electric mobility in Pakistan. We receive invaluable financial contributions and mentorship from international agencies, government bodies, NGOs, and private organizations. Our funding partners play a crucial role in strategy development, enhancing our sustainability efforts. We are deeply grateful for their unwavering support and collaboration, which empower us to implement innovative sustainable energy solutions. Every contribution counts, and we manage donations with transparency and accountability, actively working towards a sustainable future for Pakistan.